---
title: Detailed tutorial on building V2Ray
---

## Preparation

- VPS
- Get VPS information: IP address, root user password, SSH port
- Install Xshell
- Install V2Ray

## Install V2Ray

```sh
wget -qO- -o- https://git.io/v2ray.sh
```

- The script specially creates a time display to provide feedback to detect the installation time.
- Theoretically, the installation will be completed within 15 seconds in most cases
- To facilitate your quick use, the script will automatically create a VMess-TCP configuration after installation is complete.
- At this point you can copy the URL to related software (such as v2rayN) to test whether it works normally.
- If it does not work properly, please try to use `v2ray add ss` to add an SS to test again

## V2Ray Management Panel

Now you can try typing `v2ray` and press Enter to manage V2Ray
Tip, if you don’t want to perform any functions, just press Enter to exit.

## Turn off the firewall

```sh
systemctl stop firewalld;
systemctl disable firewalld;
ufw disable
```

- Turn off the firewall and then test whether the port is open
- If it doesn't work, you may have an external firewall that is not turned off, and you must be able to connect to the port for normal use.
- If `REACHABILITY` shows `Reachable` then the port can be connected, then continue
- Use `v2ray add ss` to add an SS to see if it can be used normally. If it is used normally, it proves that there is no problem in operation.

:::tip
The V2Ray kernel installed by default is the latest version
:::

## not available

- There are generally two situations when it cannot be used. One is that the port cannot be connected, and the other is that there is a problem with the client kernel support.
- If your VPS has an external firewall, make sure you have opened the ports
- Test whether the port can be connected:
  - Open: <https://ping.sx/check-port>
  - Target writes your VPS IP,
  - Port is the port for writing V2Ray,
  - Then click `Check`
  - If REACHABILITY displays `Timeout`, it means the port cannot be connected
- It may be that the kernel of your client is too old, please try to use a different client for testing; such as `v2rayN` `v2rayNG`, etc.
- Please try setting `VMessAEAD`, some clients will have related options
- Some clients have to fill in the additional `id(alterid)` as 0; such as the stuff from junk Apple

### Solution 1: Please try to downgrade the server-side kernel version

Use `v2ray update core 4.45.2` to downgrade

### Solution 2, upgrade client kernel

:::tip
You can use `v2ray ip` to view the VPS IP

Please try to keep the client kernel and server kernel consistent! Kernel versions lower than 5 may cause inexplicable problems
:::

## Quick Start

### Add configuration:

- `v2ray add` : add configuration
- `v2ray add ss`: Add a Shadowsocks configuration
- `v2ray add tcp` : Add a VMess-TCP configuration
- `v2ray add kcpd`: Add a VMess-mKCP-dynamic-port dynamic port configuration
  :::tip
  When using `v2ray add` to add configuration, only the TLS-related protocol configuration must provide the domain name, and everything else can be processed automatically.
  :::

### Change configuration:

- `v2ray change`: change configuration
- `v2ray change tcp`: Change TCP related configurations
- `v2ray change tcp port auto`: Change the port of TCP related configuration. The port is created automatically.
- `v2ray port tcp auto`: Same as above
- `v2ray change kcp id auto`: Change the UUID of mKCP related configuration. The UUID is created automatically.
- `v2ray id tcp auto`: Same as above

### View configuration:

- `v2ray info`: View configuration
- `v2ray info tcp`: View TCP related configurations
- `v2ray info kcp`: View kcp related configurations

### Delete configuration:

- `v2ray del`: delete configuration
- `v2ray del kcp`: Delete KCP related configurations
- `v2ray del tcp`: Delete TCP related configurations

**Note: Use del parameter with caution**

### Turn on BBR optimization

```sh
v2ray bbr
```

### mKCP

```sh
v2ray add kcp
```

**Note: Due to UDP reasons, Qos may be blocked by the operator, which is unsolvable. Also, using mKCP will cost more traffic, please note! **

### Dynamic port

```sh
v2ray add kcpd #or v2ray add tcpd
```

###VMess-WS-TLS

Implementing VMess-WS-TLS is super simple, the prerequisite is to have a domain name that can be resolved normally (and know how to resolve the domain name)

```sh
v2ray add ws
```

### VLESS-H2-TLS

Implementing VLESS-H2-TLS is super simple, the prerequisite is to have a domain name that can be resolved normally (and know how to resolve the domain name)

```sh
v2ray add vh2
```

**Note: Compared with VMess-WS-TLS, VLESS-H2-TLS has some advantages when browsing the web, and the speed is about the same**

### Trojan-gRPC-TLS

Implementing Trojan-gRPC-TLS is super simple, the prerequisite is to have a domain name that can be resolved normally (and know how to resolve the domain name)

```sh
>v2ray add tgrpc
```
