---
outline: deep
title: Mastering tsconfig
editLink: true
head:
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: package npm pnpm yarn engineering tsconfig
---

# Master tsconfig.json

If you use `VSCode`, there is usually a `jsconfig.json` or `tsconfig.json` file in the root directory of each project. So what is the role of this file?

According to the explanation of [official document](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig), `jsconfig.json` marks the directory as the `JS` project root directory and is configured as the project root directory according to the internal configuration. Supported types of files provide language services (such as `api` prompts, import path prompts, etc.)

Because the configuration related to the `ts` file does not need to be configured in the `js` project, it is officially said that `jsconfig` belongs to a subset of `tsconfig`, and will be explained with `tsconfig` in the following article.

## Why is it needed?

1. When there is no `tsconfig.json`, `VSCode` treats each file as an independent unit. As long as there are no explicit references between the two files through module import statements, the two files have no common project context.
2. When there is `tsconfig.json`, the configured properties will apply to every file in the project. For example, you can selectively list which files the language service needs to support or which files it does not support.

To put it simply, after you have the `tsconfig.json` file, the set `include`, `exclude` and other attributes can restrict the scope of the language service. For example, when using `console.log(b)` in `a.js`, because there is no `b` in the file context, the language service provided by the editor will look for any file that exports `b`. If If the project is very large, the full directory search efficiency will be very low. In this case, `tsconfig.json` is needed to specify which files need to be searched, thereby improving the editor efficiency.

<hr />

In addition, we know that you can use the `tsc` command provided by the `typescript` library to compile and output `js` files. When compiling a small number of files, you can specify compilation options through parameters, but if you compile the entire project, you need to use `tsconfig.json` to specify the compilation options. At the same time, the unified compilation strategy is also conducive to team collaboration and development.

> Options specified in the `tsc` command line will always override the corresponding configuration in `tsconfig.json`

## Create a file

The `tsconfig.json` file can be created manually. In `vscode`, the relevant attributes can be prompted through the `trigger suggestion` shortcut key.

`tsconfig.json` can also be generated through the `tsc init` command (you need to install the `typescript` package first). The generated content only has the `compilerOptions` field, and several common attributes are enabled. Other attributes are also detailed through comments. explain

The `tsconfig.json` file can be an empty file. As long as this file is created, the directory where it is located will be recognized as the project root directory, and the relevant attributes will use default values.

## JS, TS common attributes

### include

To specify a list of files or folders that are allowed to be recognized, run using wildcards:

- `*` matches 0 or more characters (excluding directory separators)
- `?` matches any character (excluding directory separators)
- `**/` matches any one or more levels of directories

If a certain part of the path only contains `*` or `.*`, then this part will only match the supported extensions (`.ts`, `.tsx`, `.d.ts`, if `allowJs` is set Also includes `.js` and `.jsx`)

### files

Specify a list of files that are allowed to be recognized. If the corresponding file cannot be found, an error will be reported.

Used to replace `include` when only a few files need to be identified. `files` and `include` can also exist at the same time. In addition, the files specified by `files` will not be excluded by `exclude`

### exclude

Specify a list of files or folders that should not be recognized, wildcards can also be used

`exclude` will exclude the directories specified by the `node_modules`, `bowser_components`, `jspm_packages` and `outDir` attributes by default

::: tip
When not specified, the default value of `include` is `["**/*"]`; the default value of `files` and `exclude` is `[]`
:::

### extends

```json
{
  "extends": "./anotherConfig.json"
}
```

Inherit the configuration in another configuration file, and the path matching rules adopt the `NodeJS` matching rules. The configuration properties in the main configuration file will override the properties in the file specified by `extends`, and different properties in the object will be merged into a complete configuration. Multiple configuration files cannot be referenced circularly through the `extends` attribute

It should be noted that the `files`, `include` and `exclude` fields will not be merged, and the configuration in the main configuration file will be used first.

### watchOptions

### vueCompilerOptions

## TS related properties

### compilerOptions

`compilerOptions` is the main part of `TS` configuration

#### allowUnreachableCode

Define how to handle code that will not be accessed. The default `undefined` means to display a warning, and `true` means to ignore it, and `false` means to report an error. For example:

```ts
function fn(n: number) {
  if (n > 5) {
    return true
  } else {
    return false
  }
  //The following code will never be executed
  return true
}
```

#### allowUnusedLabels

Defines how to handle unused tags, the rules are the same as `allowUnreachableCode`. Label syntax is not commonly used. If you don’t understand it, you can refer to [MDN Document](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/label)

#### exactOptionalPropertyTypes

Whether optional attribute types need to be defined precisely. The default `TS` optional attribute can be `undefined`. If this option is turned on, `undefined` will not be supported by default.

#### noFallthroughCasesInSwitch

Whether each non-empty `case` in the `switch` statement needs to contain `break` or `return`

#### noImplicitOverride

After enabling the subclass to override the parent class method, the `override` keyword must be added:

```ts
class Son extends Father {
  override func() {}
}
```

#### noImplicitReturns

After enabling, it will strictly check whether the function has a clear return value (the default return of `undefined` will report an error)

#### noPropertyAccessFromIndexSignature

After turning on, you will not be able to use dot syntax (`obj.attr`) to access attributes defined by index in the object:

```ts
interface test {
  a: string
  [key: string]: string
}

let obj: test = { a: 'a' }
// After turning on noPropertyAccessFromIndexSignature, an error will be reported
// Property "b" comes from the index signature, so it must be accessed using ["b"]. ts(4111)
console.log(obj.b)
```

#### noUncheckedIndexedAccess

<!-- TODO -->

After opening

#### noUnusedLocals

Unused local variables will report an error after being turned on.

#### noUnusedParameters

After turning on unused function parameters, an error will be reported.

#### alwaysStrict

Whether to treat each file as having strict mode enabled (`use strict`) will be enabled by default in the `ESModule` file. For specific rules, please refer to [MDN Document](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN /docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode)

#### strictBindCallApply

After turning on, it will check whether the parameter types in `call`, `apply` and `bind` are consistent with the type defined by the original function.

#### strictFunctionTypes

When turned on, function parameter type checking will be more accurate. For example, a more precise function type cannot be assigned to the extension set of the type:

```ts
function fn(x: string) {
  console.log('Hello, ' + x.toLowerCase())
}

type StringOrNumberFunc = (ns: string | number) => void

// Unsafe assignment is prevented
let func: StringOrNumberFunc = fn
```

#### strictNullChecks

When turned on, `null` and `undefined` will be regarded as specific types and will not default to subtypes of other types.

```ts
let a: string
// The default null and undefined can be assigned to other types. After turning on strictNullChecks, an error will be reported.
a = undefined
// When strictNullChecks is not turned on, the type of b is recognized as string
// When turned on, it will be recognized as string|undefined
let a: string[] = []
let b = a.find((item) => item == 'a')
```

#### strictPropertyInitialization

After turning on, if a class attribute is declared in the class but the attribute is not set in the constructor, an error will be reported.

#### noImplicitAny

Whether variables of ambiguous type are allowed to exist. For example, if the function parameter does not specify a type, `TS` will treat the type as `any`. This attribute defines whether this default fallback type behavior is allowed.

#### noImplicitThis

After turning on, if the `this` type cannot be recognized (implicit `any` type), an error will be reported, for example:

```ts
class Name {
  firstName: ''
  lastName: ''

  outputName() {
    return function () {
      // This in this function can only be determined when it is called, not the Name class, and an error will be reported.
      return this.firstName + this.lastName
    }
  }
}
```

#### useUnknownInCatchVariables

After turning on, the error type in `catch` will be changed from `any` to `unknown`

#### strict

Turn on strict mode. As of `TS 4.3`, turning on the `strict` option is equivalent to turning on the following eight compilation options:

1. alwaysStrict
2. strictBindCallApply
3. strictFunctionTypes
4. strictNullChecks
5. strictPropertyInitialization
   6.noImplicitAny
   7.noImplicitThis
6. useUnknownInCatchVariables

These options can also be set individually after setting `strict: true`

#### allowUmdGlobalAccess

<!-- TODO -->

When enabled, the `UMD` module export is allowed to be accessed as a global variable.

#### baseUrl

Define the relative base directory when parsing relative paths

The default is `./`, which is relative to the root directory. For example, after setting it to `src/`, the relative path within the project will be searched starting from `src`

#### module

Definition itemThe module system used by the project supports `CommonJS`, `AMD`, `System`, `UMD`, `ES6`, `ES2015`, `ES2020`, `ESNext`, `None`, `ES2022`, `Node16` , `NodeNext`

Generally, it only needs to be set to `CommonJS` or `ESNext`. This attribute determines the modular format that the code needs to convert the modular statements into after the `ts` file is compiled.

#### moduleResolution

Defines the compiler's strategy for finding module import files, supporting `Classic` or `Node`. If `module` is not specified, it is `Classic` if it is `AMD` or `System` or `ES2015`, otherwise it is regarded as `Node`

The `Classic` strategy is the default parsing strategy of the early `TS`: during relative import, it will search for `.ts` and `.d.ts` files in the relative directory in sequence; during non-relative import, it will traverse from the current directory to the root directory in sequence. (`baseUrl`) Find `.ts`, `.d.ts` files

The `Node` strategy is to imitate the module resolution mechanism of `NodeJS`. The difference is that the `TS` project adds support for extensions (`.ts`, `.tsx`, `.d.ts`, if `allowJs` is set `then also includes `.js`and`.jsx`)

#### moduleSuffixes

Used to add a default suffix name for searching when parsing the module, for example:

```js
"moduleSuffixes": [".ios", ".native", ""]

import * as foo from "./foo";
```

At this time, the search will be carried out in the order of `foo.ios.ts`, `foo.native.ts`, and `foo.ts` (the extension replacement steps such as `tsx` are omitted here)
