---
outline: deep
title: JS modularity principle
editLink: true
head:
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: package npm pnpm yarn engineering tsconfig JS modularization
---

# JS modularity principle

When JavaScript was originally designed, it was not expected to be used to implement complex functions, so it did not provide modular functions. But in the gradual development, the lack of modularization exposed serious problems:

1. Naming conflict

Each script is loaded through the `script` tag in `HTML` and executed in order. So you need to be very careful whether the variable names in the script conflict with other scripts.

1. Not conducive to code splitting

When the amount of code increases, splitting the files becomes necessary. However, the way the `script` tag is loaded requires that each script must be written in the correct order. Once the number of scripts increases, it will bring a heavy mental burden.

<hr />

In order to solve these problems, a series of modular solutions have emerged. You can read [The Evolution of JavaScript Modularity](https://github.com/myshov/history-of-javascript/tree/master/4_evolution_of_js_modularity) or [Translation] (https://github.com/Yingkaixiang/evolution-of-js-modularity) Understand the development history of JS modularity. This article only introduces the immediate execution function and the `CommonJS` and `ESModule` used today

## Execute function immediately

> The full English name is `Immediately Invoked Function Expression`, abbreviated as `IIFE`

Implementing modularization through the function scope of JS was the most popular solution in the early days. This is why interviews almost always ask about closures. It is a historical inheritance.

```js
;(function () {
  // script logic
  // Variables within the function cannot be accessed in other scripts and will not cause scope pollution.
})()
// or
var someMethod = (function () {})()
```

This realizes the most classic modularization solution. The first semicolon is because when loading multiple scripts through the `script` tag, the previous script may not end with a semicolon, which will cause JS to be parsed as `(section A script)()(second script)` format, that is to say, the brackets of the second script are used as brackets for function calls.

Later, this format of immediate execution function starting with a semicolon and ending without a semicolon became the default standard writing method for many programmers.

## CommonJS(CJS)

`CommonJS` is the modular specification adopted by `NodeJS` (now also supports `ESModule`)

### grammar

::: code-group

```js [export]
module.exports = {
  name: 'value'
}

// You can also use exports directly
exports.name = 'value'
```

```js [import]
const lib = require('./lib.js')
console.log(lib.name) // print value

// For modules that do not need to receive values, you can just import
require('./lib.js')
```

:::

### Principle

The following simulates the general principle of modularization in `CommonJS` (it only helps to understand the execution process, and is different from the real implementation method). Suppose you have the following two modules:

::: code-group

```js [index.js]
const a = require('./a.js')

console.log(a)
```

```js [a.js]
module.exports = 'a'
```

:::

You can think of `CommonJS` as a build plug-in, which will process the above two modules into the following format:

```js
//Module class
function Module() {
   this.exports = {}
   // Omit class initialization parameters and other initialization properties
}
//Set cache object
Module._cache = {}
// Mount prototype method require
Module.prototype.require = function (path) {
   // 1. Calculate the absolute path
   var filename = calculate absolute path
   // 2. Determine whether there is cache
   var cache = Module._cache[filename]
   if (cache) {
     return cache
   }
   // 3. Determine whether the module is built-in
   if (filename exists in built-in module) {
     return built-in module
   }
   // 4. Generate module instance and store in cache
   var module = new Module()
   Module._cache[filename] = module
   //Create a reference to module.exports to provide a simplified way of writing exports.key=value
   var exports = module.exports
   // 5. Load module
   var content = read script content(
     // 6. Execution module
     function (content, exports, require, module) {
       //The module code is packaged into functions with exports, require, and module for execution
       //So these three variables can be used directly in the module
       // The objects exported through module.exports= are also stored in the exports attribute of the module instance.
       // When other modules require this module, they can obtain exports from the cache instance object returned in step 2.
       // eval is a method for executing code strings, refer to https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval
       eval(content)
     }
   )(content, module.exports, Module.prototype.require, module)
}
// Call entry module
Module.prototype.require('./index.js')
// When running to require('./a.js') in the entry, the Module instance of a.js will be built and the a.js code will be executed.
//The whole process is to execute all scripts synchronously line by line.
```

From the above pseudocode, we can observe several characteristics of `CommonJS`:

1. `require` loading module is executed synchronously (the corresponding module will not be executed until the `require` line is reached)
2. The module will only be executed when it is loaded for the first time, and subsequent loads will be read from the cache.
3. Read the cache through the module path. If the path is different, it will be reloaded (`NodeJS` supports paths in `URL` format, so adding symbols such as `?key=value` will cause the same module to be reloaded)
4. If no value is exported, `require` returns the initialized `exports` empty object.
5. `module.exports` exports the value received by the equal sign (shallow copy). The object type values can be shared by each module through references, and simple values will not affect each other.
6. Although `exports` and `module.exports` are the same object, it is not recommended to use `exports` directly. Because `exports` can only be exported by mounting attributes: `exports.key = value`, if it is mistakenly written in the form of `exports = value`, it will only rewrite the value of the `exports` variable, and the real `module. The exports` attribute did not receive a value

### Module matching rules

When `CommonJS` imports a `JSON` file, the content in the file will be parsed and then imported.

```js
// For example, the content of the json file is: {"a":"a"}, which is equivalent to
module.exports = { a: 'a' }
```

Except for `.js`, `.json`, and `.node` extensions in the `CommonJS` module parsing strategy, other files will be treated as `js` files for processing.

When a module that exactly matches the incoming path is not found, it will try to add `.js`, `.json`, and `.node` extensions in sequence for matching.

::: tip CommonJS detailed loading sequence is:
When importing using relative or absolute paths

1. Determine whether there is a file that exactly matches the path
2. Try `.js`, `.json`, `.node` extensions in sequence for matching (if the path has no extension, add the extension, and if the path itself has an extension, modify the extension)
3. Try to find a folder with the same name (remove the extension)
4. If there is a folder with the same name, and there is a `package.json` file and the correct `exports` field inside, try to parse the file with the specified rule (when there is no file that exactly matches the rule path, the previous rules still apply)
5. If there is no correct `exports` field, but there is a correct `main` field, try to load the file corresponding to the `main` field (when there is no file that exactly matches the rule path, the previous rules still apply)
6. If there is a folder with the same name, but there is no `package.json` or the `exports` and `main` fields are incorrect, try to find the `index` file according to the second rule in the folder

When importing directly through the package name (`require('package')`), the `node_modules` folder in the current directory or the nearest parent directory will be searched, and then the `node_modules` folder will be searched according to the appeal rules.

If matching fails, an error message `Cannot find module` will be reported.
:::

### Loop loading rules

::: code-group

```js [a.js]
var b = require('./b.js')
console.log(b) // b
module.exports = 'a'
```

```js [b.js]
var a = require('./a.js')
console.log(a) // {}
module.exports = 'b'
```

:::

When the above circular reference occurs, `CommonJS` handles it in a special way:

When `a` is executed, the first line is to load `b`. At this time `a` will stop and start executing `b`

`b` imports `a` again, but `a` will not be loaded repeatedly, because the module determines that `a` has already been executed, and the value of `a` in the cache is the part that has been executed, that is, it is not exported. , so the initial empty object `{}` printed as `module.exports`

After `b` is executed, the execution right is returned to `a`. At this time, the imported `b` gets the value, so the print is `b`

**But it should be noted that the function promotion in language features will be read earlier than `require`, so the `function` statement written after `require` in the circular reference will still be loaded first** (`var` is also It will be improved, but it will be `undefined` before being assigned, so it will have no impact)

## ES Module

> The full name is `EcmaScript Module`, which is the standard modular solution officially launched in `ES6`. It is basically fully supported on both the `Node` side and the browser side.

### grammar

Export:

```js
// Directly export variables and functions, the same is true for let and var
export const key = value
export function func() {}

//Declare variables first and then export them
const key = value
function func() {}
export { key, func }

// Export rename
export { key as otherKey, func as otherFunc }

// Default export. A module can only have one default export. There can be multiple named exports, and they can be owned at the same time as the default export.
export default value
```

Import:

```js
//Import non-default exported variables
import { key, func } from 'module'

// Import rename
import { key as otherKey, func as otherFunc } from 'module'

// Overall import, called through obj.key and obj.func
import * as obj from 'module'

//Import the data exported by default. The name can be chosen arbitrarily.
import name from 'module'

//Rename default export
import { default as otherName } from 'module'

//Import data with both default export and named export
import name, { key, func } from 'module'

// Only execute the module without getting any variables
import 'module'
```

Export and import also support compound writing, which can simplify writing in certain situations:

```js
export { foo, bar } from 'module'
// can be simply understood as
import { foo, bar } from 'module'
export { foo, bar }

// Also supports renaming and overall re-export
export { foo as myFoo } from 'module'
export * from 'module'
export * as newName from 'module'

//The re-export syntax for default export is
export { default } from 'module'
export { default as newName } from 'module'
```

The `ESModule` module is also supported in the browser, using asynchronous loading, which is equivalent to adding the `defer` keyword to `script`. Multiple `ESModule script` tags will also be loaded and executed in the order in which they are written. You can also add the `async` keyword, in which case the module will be executed immediately when loading is completed.

```html
<script type="module" src=""></script>
<!-- Equivalent to -->
<script type="module" src="" defer></script>
<!-- When adding async, the script will be executed immediately after loading is completed -->
<script type="module" src="" async></script>
```

::: tip The difference between `defer` and `async` is:
`defer` will not be executed until the entire page is rendered normally in memory (the `DOM` structure is completely generated and other scripts are executed); once `async` is downloaded, the rendering engine will interrupt the rendering. After executing this script , and then continue rendering. In a word, `defer` means "execute after rendering", and `async` means "execute after downloading". In addition, if there are multiple `defer` scripts, they will be loaded in the order they appear on the page, while multiple `async` scripts cannot guarantee the loading order.
:::

### Principle

The idea of `ES6` modularization is static, so that the dependencies between modules and the input and output variables can be determined during compilation. Unlike `CommonJS`, you need to actually run the line to determine these things. The benefits of staticization are:

- Static analysis can help implement practical functions such as type checking and `TreeShaking`
- When the API is officially expanded in the future, it no longer has to be made a global attribute, but can be provided by providing modules.

The `ES` module in the browser usually loads an entry module using only the `script` tag, and then loads the required modules in sequence through dependency resolution between modules. The following uses a simple `Vue` project example to help understand the process of `ES` module parsing:

::: code-group

```html
<!-- Omit other code -->
<html>
  <body>
    <div id="app"></div>
    <script type="module" src="./main.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

```js [main.js]
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'

createApp(App)
```

```js [App.vue]
import { h } from 'vue'
import str from './config.js'
// Vue files in template template form are actually parsed into similar render function forms.
export default {
  render() {
    return h('div', str)
  }
}
```

```js [config.js]
export default 'xxx'
```

:::

After the `HTML` code is parsed, because `type="module"` is recognized, the engine will use asynchronous loading to directly start downloading the `main.js` file

After the file download is completed and `div#app` is rendered, `main.js` will be parsed by the `ES` module parser in the engine. The parser will download and parse each subsequent module starting from the entrance, and collect all `import` and `export` to build the module dependency graph (this is completed during the engine parsing process, the code has not yet been converted into machine code for execution )

When collecting `export`, storage space will be opened for these exported variables. After all modules are parsed, each `import` and `export` will be linked to the corresponding memory address in a depth-first subsequent traversal manner starting from the bottom module that has completed the parsing. For soft links (`linking`)

After completing the appeal parsing step, the engine has a complete module dependency graph and can start executing code

The first sentence `import { createApp } from 'vue'` will cause the browser to start executing `vue` related code. During the execution process, the export variable `createApp` will be evaluated and filled into the corresponding memory address. Because `import` has been linked to this address, the `createApp` method can be correctly obtained in the module.

The second sentence `import App from './App.vue'` will start executing the `App.vue` file (in the formal environment, it is the parsed `js` file, not `.vue`), `App.vue` `The `h`function is introduced internally from`vue`. Because the `vue`module is marked as executed in the module dependency graph, the memory address of the`h`function will be obtained directly, and then the execution of`config.js` will begin.

The exported variable is assigned a value in `config.js`, returned to `App.vue` for execution, and the `render` function is assigned a value. Finally, return to `main.js` and start executing the `createApp` function. `createApp` will call the `render` function internally, return the virtual `DOM` generated by executing the `h` function, and then mount it to `div# by `createApp` app`, this completes the execution process of the entire application

<hr />

Because `ESModule` is statically analyzed by the `JS` engine before execution, variables cannot be used in imports, or imports and exports can be placed in logic:

```js
// Report an error because the if logic can only be determined during operation
if (x === 2) {
   import module from 'module.js';
}
// Variables cannot be used for import, and the import can only be placed at the outermost level of the module. The specification is at the top of the module.
let varName = 'xxx'
import { `${varName}Module.js` } from 'module'
```

There are also some features in the `ES` module:

1. Strict mode will be automatically adopted in the `ES` module file. For the relevant rules of strict mode, please see [MDN-Strict Mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode)
2. The `ES` module supports top-level `await` (that is, the outermost layer of the code, which can also be used inside non-functions, and will interrupt the main process of the module)
3. The top-level `this` in the module is `undefined`, not `window`. You can use this feature to distinguish module types.
4. To import a `json` file, you need to make an assertion `import name from './xxx.json' assert { type: 'json' }`. You can only use the default import method, and the imported data is the object after `json` parsing.

### Module matching rules

Compared with `CommonJS`, the `ES` module only supports importing files in `.js`, `.mjs`, `.cjs` and `.json` formats, and the module path must match exactly, including the extension. Therefore, the `ES` module matching rules can be simplified directly on `CommonJS`:

When importing using a relative or absolute path, directly try to find a file that exactly matches the path

When importing by package name (`import 'package'`), the `node_modules` folder in the current directory or the nearest parent directory is searched. If there is a folder with the same name in `node_modules`, and there is a `package.json` file and the correct `exports` field inside, try to parse the file with the specified rules

Otherwise, the matching fails and an error `Cannot find package` is reported (in packagers such as `webpack`, `ESModule` will be extended to support the parsing rules of `CommonJS`. Please note that it is not the native parsing rule of the `ES` module)

### Loop loading rules

`ESModule` handles cyclic loading fundamentally differently from `CommonJS`. `CommonJS` uses copy values, while `ESModule` uses soft links to the memory address of exported variables.

```js
// a.mjs
import b from './b.mjs';
console.log('a');
console.log(b);
export default 'a';

// b.mjs
import a from './a.mjs';
console.log('b');
console.log(a);
export default 'b';

//Print results of executing a.mjs:
//b
// ReferenceError: a is not defined

// If it is CommonJS, you can calculate it based on the above, the result is:
//b
// {}
// a
//b
```

In the above example, `a.js` first references `b.js` and will start executing `b.js` immediately. The first line of `b.js` refers to `a.js`. At this time, it is determined that `a` has been processed in the module dependency relationship, so it will not be executed repeatedly.

Then print `'b'`, and then print `a`. Because the export statement in the `a.js` module has not yet been executed, that is, the soft link address has not yet been assigned a value, so `a` cannot be found. An error will be reported (the space is only opened but no value is assigned, which is different from the assignment in the space of `undefined`)

**But like `CommonJS`, the promotion of the function will still be earlier than the execution of `import`**, so if the above export is replaced by a function, the result will be different.

```js
// a.mjs
import b from './b.mjs';
console.log('a');
console.log(b);
export default function(){ return 'a' };

// b.js
import a from './a.mjs';
console.log('b');
console.log(a);
export default function(){ return 'a' };

//Print results of executing a.js:
//b
// [Function: default]
// a
// [Function: default]
```

### Load CommonJS module in ES module

Because `CommonJS` is loaded synchronously, and the `ES` module internally supports top-level `await` and cannot be loaded synchronously, `CommonJS` does not support mixed use of `ES` modules. But the `CommonJS` code synchronized in turn can be loaded by `ESModule`

Because it requires execution to determine the export value, the `CommonJS` module cannot be statically analyzed by the `ES` module parser, so it can only be loaded as a whole:

```js
// Report an error
import { method } from 'commonjs-package'
// correct
import packageMain from 'commonjs-package'
const { method } = packageMain
// It can also be exported again to support single loading of ES modules.
export { method }
```

The built-in modules of `NodeJS` support specified loading:

```js
//Full loading
import EventEmitter from 'events'
//Load the specified output item
import { readFile } from 'fs'
```

## Dynamic loading function-import()

Because the `ES` module uses soft links, these memory addresses are read-only, which means that the imported variables cannot be modified directly:

```js
import { a } from 'a.js'
a = 2 // Uncaught TypeError: Assignment to constant variable.
```

In order to make up for this shortcoming, the `import()` function was introduced in the `ES2020` proposal to support dynamic loading of modules. The syntax is:

```js
import('./module.js')
//The example mentioned above is also supported.
if (x === 2) {
  import('module')
}
let varName = 'xxx'
import(`${varName}Module.js`)
```

It can be seen that the lazy loading of routes in `vue` and the dynamic loading of modules in `vite` use the `import` function syntax.

The `import` function returns a `Promise` object, which can be used anywhere, including in `CommonJS` modules. Because of dynamic loading, the `import` function has no static link relationship with the loaded module, which is different from the `import` statement.

:::code-group

```js [a.js]
const name = require('./b.js')

;(async function () {
  const value = await import(`./${name}.mjs`)
  console.log(value)
})()
```

```js [b.js]
module.exports = 'c'
```

```js [c.mjs]
export default 'ccccccc'
```

:::

After executing `node a.js`, it will print `[Module: null prototype] { default: 'ccccccc' }`

In `ES2020`, a meta attribute `import.meta` is also added to the `import` attribute to return the meta information of the current module. The specific attributes returned are not specified by the standard, but they include at least the following two attributes:

1. `import.meta.url`: Returns the `url` path of the current module, such as `https://foo.com/main.js`
2. `import.meta.scriptElement`: It is a browser-specific original attribute that will return the `script` tag element of the loaded module.

`import.meta` is extensible. By extending properties in the form of `import.meta.key = value`, it can also be accessed in other `ES` modules of the entire project. For example, `vite` extends `import.meta.env `
